## Installation of Jenkins server (AWS Cloud):

### Pre-requisites:

- Virtual machine (EC2 instance on AWS)  with CentOS installed
- Permission to execute root commands
- Enabled/Open the required port number for jenkins preferably 8080 on virtual machine
- Putty Client (optional but preferred)

Firstly, open a connection with putty client to the EC2-instance and log in as ec2-user.

```
[ec2-user@ip-172-31-11-45 ~]$ sudo su
```

Update the packages installed on the machine:

```
[root@ip-172-31-11-45 ec2-user]# yum -y update
```

Install java version 1.8:

```
[root@ip-172-31-11-45 ec2-user]# yum install -y java-1.8.0-openjdk
```

Check the Java version using the following command.

```
[root@ip-172-31-11-45 ec2-user]# java -version
openjdk version "1.8.0_131"
OpenJDK Runtime Environment (build 1.8.0_131-b12)
OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM (build 25.131-b12, mixed mode)
```

Set the *JAVA_HOME* environment variable if not set:

```
[root@ip-172-31-11-45 ec2-user]# nano ~/.bash_profile
```

Now add the following lines at the at the end of the file.

```
export JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-1.8.0-openjdk-1.8.0.131-3.b12.el7_3.x86_64/
export JRE_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-1.8.0-openjdk-1.8.0.131-3.b12.el7_3.x86_64/jre
```

Now source the file using the following command.

```
[root@ip-172-31-11-45 ec2-user]# source ~/.bash_profile
```

### Install Jenkins

Jenkins can be installed directly by adding the repository and importing the GPG key. Add the Jenkins repository to your system by running the following command.

```
[root@ip-172-31-11-45 ec2-user]# wget -O /etc/yum.repos.d/jenkins.repo https://pkg.jenkins.io/redhat-stable/jenkins.repo
```

If you do not have *wget* installed, you can run *yum -y install wget*.

Import the GPG key by running the following command.

```
[root@ip-172-31-11-45 ec2-user]# rpm --import https://pkg.jenkins.io/redhat-stable/jenkins.io.key
```

Once the import is successful, need to install Jenkins by running the following command.

```
[root@ip-172-31-11-45 ec2-user]# yum -y install jenkins
```

Jenkins in now installed on server with all required packages. The installer also created a new user *jenkins* to run the process.

### Starting Jenkins

You can start Jenkins by running the following command.

```
[root@ip-172-31-11-45 ec2-user]# systemctl start jenkins
```

### Configure Jenkins

Access the web interface of Jenkins CI server by going to the following web address using Google Chrome.

```
http://13.12.23.23:8080
```

Assuming *13.12.23.23* is the public IP address of the EC2 instance. 

Enter the initial admin password, which is generated by the installer and stored in */var/lib/jenkins/secrets/initialAdminPassword* file. Run the following command to obtain the initial admin password.

```
cat /var/lib/jenkins/secrets/initialAdminPassword
```

Click on *Install Suggested Plugins* in the screen and this will install all the plugins necessary to get started.

Create an administrator user by entering the credentials like **admin/admin@hcl** in username/password respectively.